
The aim of this project is to test behavioral economic theories surrounding the practices of anchoring and nudging through the collection and evaluation of internet data. Several crowdfunding websites provide an ideal vantage point to study these economic theories. Through displaying previous donations on screen, they provide an anchor for each subsequent donor to latch on to, potentially influencing the donor’s decision to give as well as the size of the donation. Analyzing online data has several advantages (and some disadvantages) to traditional methods of studying anchoring. Internet donations provide a reflection of people’s true behavior; there is no error born from the conditions of a hypothetical environment and it does not rely on people’s stated willingness to pay, contrary to experimental and survey approaches. Additionally, the volume of internet data on donations far exceeds anything that would feasible for most experimental studies. 

Through leveraging the data available on several websites, I plan to assess the presence of anchoring effects as well its relative strength based on a number of characteristics. I will begin by scraping a series of websites and extracting time series data on incoming donations to various campaigns. Then, I will examine whether or not there is evidence to support the presence of anchoring through evaluating whether the displayed donation amounts on screen exert influence over the next donation through a lagged regression model. I will also assess how someone forms an anchor, for example through taking the mean or mode of the displayed donations. I may also investigate how anchoring is related to the category of the campaign, ingroup membership, anonymity, and gender. 
